Let's create our own hook for that just to make it really clear.
A hook is a normal jobs good function but a function that starts with the use.
That's just a convention though more importantly a function which can share state for logic.
So a function which can for example use use reducer or use state inside of it and which react and recognizes
and uses such that when in this custom hook you do something that updates a state your component that
uses your custom hook is re rendered.
So it's a special function react recognize as you could say a special function you can use and functional
components which react recognizes and where if inside of that function you change something that impacts
the state react will re render a component that uses your customer.
That is what hooks are about in the end.
So let's create a custom hook and it should become clearer in our shared folder next to components.
I'll add a hooks folder hooks because we will add more than one hook throughout this course.
And here I want to add my form dash hook dot J as follows.
You could also just name it form of course if you prefer that.
Now in there I want to hold all my use reduce her logic that has set up a new place.
So actually I don't want to be forced to import use reduce her and use callback in here but instead
I want to import that into form hook.
So there I want to import.
Use callback and use reducer from react.
Then in here I want to have my own function use form and your custom hooks.
Always have to start with lower case use.
That's a convention you should adhere to and it will export this function.
So that's my own hook.
Now I export it here now in new place I have my form reducer and I will cut dead from new place and
instead add it here into the form hook set off the hook function just like this in there.
We have a lot of logic that basically works standalone there are no external inputs that are required
from our component dysfunction only needs information about the state and the action and all that information
is passed through parameters.
So this function should work just fine here in New Place component.
I then also use use reducer.
So let's cut this as well and move that into the custom hook here inside the hook function.
Here I call use reducer.
I got my form state I got this patch and here I now got some logic which is specific to component and
should not live like that in the hook in general because not every component where we will use that
hook will have title description and address inputs so we'll have to kind of take this initialization
logic here for the inputs take it out of our use reduce recall in use form and instead may be expected
here as an argument to our custom hook so that there I get my initial inputs parameter and I assign
this here to inputs and I also get my initial form validity and I assign this here so that this is all
not hardcoded into this use reducer initial state but can be set from outside when we use the customer.
So back in New Place there I don't want to use that custom hook so I will import use form from going
to the shared folder hooks for him hook and here the idea is that we can now call use form and then
pass in our initial input validity as a first argument and the initial form validity in my case falls
as a second argument does now initialize as my user user in my use form hook correctly hopefully we're
not done though does Input handler should also be taken out of new place and be added to the form hook
here I can add Input handler with use callback that's still important use the dispatch function which
I get from the use reducer and then well leave my logic in here as it is
now our hook should also return something because we're not interested in the form step inside of the
hook we're interested in that state in the place where we used to look the same for the Input handler
we need to shared this with the component which uses our custom hook.
So here I will return an array by the way you can all return objects or just text or whatever you want.
Hooks don't have to return arrays but here an array makes sense because I want to return my form state
and Input handler so a pointer at this Input handler function.
I returned both from inside my use form hook and was dead and new place I can get both here use form
returns in array with exactly two elements.
So on my own hook I can also use a radio structuring to get the forum state and the input change handler
Input handler was the name before.
So let's keep that name Input handler.
We can assign any name we want here when using a radio structuring.
So now I get that information back from my hook but the logic of that reduce runs on now lives inside
of the hook and that hopefully shows the advantage of custom hooks.
Our component now got leaner and we got that logic that stayed for logic and it is state full logic
when we call this patch.
We will re render a component.
We got that state full logic in hook it because it's a hook and react knows this concept of hooks.
When we update the state inside of our custom hook the component that uses our custom hook will update
as well so therefore now if we save this ad place should work just fine here if I enter something and
I have valid inputs everywhere.
My overall form becomes valid.
And if I invalidate the input it becomes invalid.
If I submitted.
We see all the data is there.
So our custom hook works.
And now we can use that custom hook.
Also an update place and hence we're sharing all that for management input change handling logic.
So let's go to update place and data import use form from shared hooks for Hook and now justice before
in here we can called use form initialize our inputs and the form itself the form itself should be valid
initially for the inputs here we will have a title input and for the title input whips we need to call
in here for the tile input the value initially is let's initialize it below identified place initially
is identified placed dot title is valid if that input is true therefore the cost it will be a non empty
value and for description devalue is identified plays stored description and this will also be valid
initially so then we get back our form state
and we will also get back our input handler.
So with that we can use both.
We can use input handler here on the on input props of our input components and we can set the value
here to form state DOT inputs dot titled value here in this case.
And here on the description its form state inputs description dot value and the same for the validity.
This is form state inputs description is valid excuse me title is valid so is valid at the end is important
here and here its description is valid.
Now please note that value and valid only are used in the input component to initialize the value.
We could therefore also name it initial value if you wanted to maybe that is a bit clearer.
To be honest so that there is no confusion that you think we're always setting a new value here.
No we're just initializing this so inside of our custom component.
Now in the input component we now should use initial value here and initial is valid here.
So basically the props I'm passing here I named just initial ballots.
So just initial valid here as well that's really important just to a white that does this confusing.
So with that back to update place we're initializing these values we bind to input handler.
Now we can also bind our button here and check form state is not valid.
So if the form is not valid and only disable the button if that's the case.
Now with that if you go to my places and click on add it initially the button is enabling of course
because initially while the values are valid if I do empty this dota button becomes disabled it's the
same here.
If the description is too short it's disabled.
So this seems to work.
Now let's all make sure that submitting this works so an update plays we also can add our submit handler
and I don't want to share this with you as forum because the submission logic is very specific to the
component in which we do have the forum.
So here I'll have my place updates submit handler or whoever you want to call it.
We get the event and I will call event prevent default to prevent that form submission and the request
to be sent and then console log form state data inputs to see what's stored in there and then we can
bind place update submit handler to on submit here on our form and if we do all of that and click Update
place does looks quite good.
And if I change something here this should also be reflected.
Let's see yeah I got the exclamation marks at the end here too.
So this is working let's also see this yeah all looks good.
So this is working and with Dad we created our own hook to reuse our state full form related logic.